รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thai Government Provides Visa-exempt Entry for Medical Treatment for Citizens of CLMV 







                                วันพุธที่ 12 กรกฎาคม 2560                              





    207  













   Thai Government Provides Visa-exempt Entry for Medical Treatment for Citizens of CLMV 
 

   countries and the People’s Republic of China, and Introduces a “Long-stay Visa for Citizens of 14 Countries as per the Medical Hub Policy 





Thailand is extending the duration of the permission-to-stay in the Kingdom to 90 days for patients and accompanying persons who wish to travel to Thailand for medical care for citizens from CLMV countries and the People’s Republic of China.  Thailand is extending the duration of the long-stay visa from 1 to 10 years for persons age 50 years or over who are citizens of 14 countries who wish to have a prolonged stay in the Kingdom, and in response to the Thai policy to become an international Medical Hub.

On July 12, 2017, at the Naree Samosorn Building of Government House, in Bangkok, General Tanasak Patimapragorn and Admiral Narong Pitpatanasai, Deputy-Prime Ministers, presided as chairpersons for the press conference on “Extension of the duration of permission-to-stay in the Kingdom to 90 days for patients and accompanying persons visiting for medical care from CLMV countries and the People’s Republic of China, and provision of the Long-stay Visa.”  Emeritus Clinical Professor Dr. Piyasakol Sakolsatayadorn, Minister of Public Health, Ms. Kobkarn Wattanavrangkul, Minister of Tourism and Sports, representatives of the Minister of Interior, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Labor, Deputy-Commissioner of the Immigration Bureau, Executive Secretary of Insurance Regulatory Commission, President of the Private Hospitals Association, and representatives from the embassies of 19 countries pertinent to this press announcement were in attendance.

            The Thai government is promoting a policy of health tourism, with the goal of improving and supporting the country to become a center for Medical & Wellness Tourism and a world-class Medical Hub.  The Ministry of Public Health has been designated as the host agency for this initiative in collaboration with Minister of Tourism and Sports, relevant agencies in the public and private sector. This initiative is being implemented under Thailand’s 10-year Strategic Plan to Become a Medical Hub (2017-26) approved by the cabinet. The goal is to elevate the standard of clinical services to meet international standards and to facilitate travel to Thailand for health care. The strategy includes building capacity of health services in both the public and private sector at all levels of the country so that the comprehensive health care service with the Joint Commission International (JCI) and Hospitals Accreditation (HA) criteria.  This includes accreditation of health outlets which meet these standards for both Thai and foreign clientele. This policy is also expected to significantly increase foreign exchange revenue for the country.
                                                                                                 
In order to promote this policy, the cabinet has approved in principle for the duration of the permission-to-stay in Thailand for citizens of 19 priority countries is expanded in the following cases with the announcement of the Ministry of Interior under Immigration Act B.E.2522 (1979) as follows: (1) Visa-exempt entry for hospital care for patients and accompanying persons not more than 4 followers from the CLMV countries and the People’s Republic of China. Citizens of these countries travel to Thailand in large numbers each year. Under this initiative, the duration of the permission-to-stay for those who meet the criteria is extended to 90 days. This measure is intended to increase convenience of access to clinical care and is effective from this date. (2) Introduction of the Long-stay Visa for foreigners age 50 years or older, initially for citizens of the United Kingdom, USA, Germany, Switzerland, Japan, France, Australia, Norway, Sweden, the Netherlands, Italy, Finland, Denmark and Canada.  The duration of the permission-to-stay under the visa is to be increased from 1 to 10 years, with the first permission-to-stay of duration of 5 years, and extendable for an additional 5 years for those who meet the stated criteria and conditions including spouse and children with aged 20 completed year. The Thai Government hopes that the facilities for foreigners staying longer in Thailand will lead to increase more income.
***************************************   July 12, 2017



ที่มา : http://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/5168